Notes on how to LaTeX the book:

Basically you just need to say ``make book'' from the
Unix command line.

LaTeX is free software. A little web searching should
turn up a version that runs on your operating system.
The book uses a bunch of .sty files, all of which are
pretty standard. If you have the teTeX distribution,
you probably have them all already. Otherwise, you
can download them from CTAN.

You need version 3.3 of wrapfig.sty; version 3.2 has a
bug in it, and it won't work.

You need version 2.5 of the titlesec
package. A copy is included in the file titlesec.tar.gz.
If you're upgrading from an earlier version of titlesec,
make sure to delete all the old files first, or it won't work.
The very first time you compile the book,
you may get a bunch of error messages from titlesec; just
keep hitting return, and on subsequent runs, you won't
have the errors. The latest version of titlesec is normally
available at this address:
ftp://ftp.dante.de/tex-archive/macros/latex/contrib/supported/titlesec.zip
However, version 2.5 is currently (Jan 2003) being distributed with a known
bug in the file margin.tss (hsize is written as hsiz in one place).
This mistake is corrected in the version of the package distributed
along with the book.

The figures are in EPS and JPG formats. If the implementation
of LaTeX you use can't handle these, you may need to convert
them. The EPS files can be converted to PDF, if necessary,
using epstopdf. 

You may get the following error message:
  TeX capacity exceeded, sorry [pool size=...]
If this happens, you need to edit your texmf.cnf file. On
a Unix system, this file is in the directory $TEXMF, which
points to something like /usr/share/texmf/web2c or 
/usr/local/teTeX/share/texmf/web2c. To edit the file on a
Unix system, you may need to do "sudo," e.g.
"sudo vi texmf.cnf". The line that says "pool_size=..."
needs to be changed. Changing it to 750000 worked for me.

The fonts used are pretty standard, and are all available
for free.

The top of  the .cls file has some comments about how the book
is implemented in TeX, which may be helpful if you're
having trouble compiling it.

I maintain the originals of the photos in PNG format, but
I compress them and put them in JPG format before
using them in the book.

I did the line art for this book using an old version Adobe Illustrator (AI).
If you want to get one of these in a format such as SVG that is editable using open-source software, the easiest
method is probably to look in one of my other physics books at lightandmatter.com;
almost all the figures in Discover Physics occur as well in one of these other
books, and those are all in SVG. The figures in this source-code archive are
in .eps format, which is difficult to convert to other formats, except using
Illustrator (of which I no longer own a copy).
